Improving English communication is easy.

Repeat it after me, improving English communication is easy.

You just need these little things and you’re gold—

Time
Patience
Internet
A little bit of arrogance.
Have these?

Now follow.

Time
You cannot improve your English communication skills overnight.

Those 15-day Spoken Classes are a scam.

You can’t get good at speaking a language you have barely spoken all your life in a few days.

Then how much time will it take you? It’s subjective and up to you.

And for this you need the next thing.

Patience
I started learning French a while back and after a few days of good run, I lost interest.

Learning a language or even learning to communicate in it will need patience.

Now. How do you do it?

Internet
This is the thing which can give you wings and help you make the leap.

Forget all the rules in the book. I will give you a personal best recommendation which I credit the most for improving my English communication and accent.

And this is the most fun step.

1) WATCH ENGLISH MOVIES & TV SERIES

Netflix, Prime, Hotstar, or good ‘ol torrents, get whatever you can.
If you aren’t a habitual viewer of the western entertainment—
Start with movies high on action (superhero flicks) and TV sitcoms (Friends, How I Met Your Mother) which are easy on the brain and fun.
Start with subtitles for easy understanding and slowly give them away.
Move on to shows you prefer, or ask your friends to recommend based on your liking.
This is the easiest and the best exercise to get started with.
2) READ

Download the Kindle app and start reading novels.
If reading novels isn’t your cup of tea: Quora, News Apps, Entertainment blogs… anything with good quality of English content will work.
You cannot expect to have a good choice of words while communicating if you haven’t been reading, right?
3) THINK IN ENGLISH

This is a hidden step, a little secret trick, but it’ll help you reap the most benefits— think in English.
You speak to yourself everyday. Come to think of it, you do it a lot, right?
All your thoughts, your dreams. The things you want to do, the things you want to happen.
Your mind is a giant bubble of a gazillion random thoughts that strike your brain.
Your go to language to communicate with your mind is probably your mother-tongue.
Start thinking in English.
4) A SUMMARY A DAY

Seen a movie? A Ted-talk? Think journals are for kids?
Do this everyday before you go to sleep.
Look in the mirror and summarise something.
See, in India, you don’t get many opportunities to converse in English which doesn’t make you uncomfortable.

Your friends will mock you. I repeat, they will definitely mock you.

So you have to make things a little private till you’re comfortable.

Stand before a mirror.
Summarise a movie you saw or a Ted talk or whatever you did that day… in English.
This habit will get you to speak… not just in your mind… but in reality.
Next and last step…

A little bit of arrogance

People might mock you.
Ones who can’t speak in English will say that you’re trying to be angrez (an Englishman) or that you’re losing your culture.
Be arrogant & ignore.
Ones who do converse fluently will probably laugh at you.
Be arrogant & ignore.
Realise that good level of communication skills will matter a lot when you’re looking for jobs.
As bad as it sounds, but for some reason, at least in India, people connect your English speaking skills with your intellect and make their assumptions.
And that is the reason for this question, right?
Happy speaking :)